So we've now succeeded in the first two steps.
We've created the database of faces and we have already coded it.
Now the third step is to find matches with the image of any person who appears in front of the camera
to work in our company.
Unlike the initial demonstration.
Now we are no longer comparing a photo against another photo, but a list of photos against the capture
taken from a webcam.
This implies certain differences and we're going to catch up with them.
So let's start by deleting this last print, which was only created for demonstration purposes.
We already know that our encoded employee list is generated properly and there has many elements as
there are images in the employees folder.
Now we're going to take care of the code to be able to take a webcam picture.
And we do this with a variable called capture where we store an object.
KV two.
Through the method video capture that allows us to do that.
So inside the brackets, we're going to put a zero, which is an ID, and the next parameter is CV two
dot C AP DX show.
With this, our code is going to take capture of whatever is seen on the camera at that moment.
Once the code gets to this line, it's going to take a picture of the webcam that's connected to the
computer.
And then we're going to read the captured image.
So what does Red mean?
It means the code is going to take what it is received from the webcam and transform it into an image
that it can use.
For that, we're going to take capture and we're going to apply the Reed method.
So when we apply this method, we're going to get two elements.
The first one is the information if the capture was successful or not.
And the second one is the image itself.
Then we have to store the result of this method in two variables the variable success to store if it
was possible or not, to take the capture.
It is a boolean and then the variable image which is going to contain the picture itself.
And here we already have more variables to do things later.
So now that we've been able to see if the capture has been done or not, we're going to look at, if
not success.
That is to say, if the photo could not be taken and we're going to print in the console, something
like capture could not be taken else.
And here comes the interesting part of the code.
First, we're going to try to recognize a face in that capture.
Now, inside a variable that can be called captured face, we're going to save a face recognition element
to which we apply face locations.
I was going to ask us to pass it an image and we're going to pass it the variable image that we have
just constructed from capture read.
So now our code already has an image.
And not only does it have the image, but it has located a face within that image.
If there is one, of course it then goes to encode the captured face.
We're going to generate a new variable that can be called encoded captured face.
This is going to equal to an object f r point face encoding.
But we already knew that is going to ask us for the image to process image and then the captured face,
which is going to be the variable captured face and we're going to construct it.
The next step is search for match because we have to search for matches between the camera face and
the list of images that we have in the encoded employee list.
So we're going to have to do it with a loop because we have to go through all the images in the database.
And this loop is going to perform an action for each face and for each location face that it finds in
a zip.
Made up of encoded captured face and captured face.
So remember that we can put two variables so we can store data that is found in an element that returns
two values in each iteration.
In this case, ZIP is an element that will return two objects per iteration, one from each list, and
these will be stored in face and location.
So this implies that in each iteration we will be able to do things with the different elements that
compose each record.
Do you follow me?
If you don't remember how the zip elements behave and you can review the lesson with that name.
So for each of the records, our loop is going to create a variable called matches, and this variable
is going to be equal to a face recognition element called compare faces.
Just going to ask for the known face encoding.
So here we load our encoded employee list, which are the control faces, and then it's going to ask
us for a face encoding to check.
And this is where we pass face.
Which is each of the faces that come from the encoded captured face.
So I hope you're following along.
And if you're not.
Go through it carefully and you'll understand it perfectly.
So we already have the matches stored in a variable.
Now we're going to store the distances in another variable, which is f, r, dot face distance.
And this is going to have the same values encoded employee list inside face one is going to return the
information about whether there is a match or not and the other is going to return the information that
says how far apart they are.
As we're going to be passing a list which is encoded employee list, it is going to return a list.
And as we have five elements in the list, it will return the five distances between the person in the
webcam and each of the people in the list.
So it will build a list with these five distances and therefore the smallest of these five distances
will be the one we have to consider as the winning match so that we can see this transiently on screen.
Before we build the final code, we're going to print the distance here in the console and now we're
going to run our code again.
It starts generating the database at this point and I'm taking off my glasses and I'm getting closer
to the camera so it can identify me.
Now it lights up and that's where the data appears.
I can't show you my camera while I'm doing this exercise.
But if I use the webcam for the video recording of the course, it can't take the capture.
This is the distance between the camera person.
That would be me and Cosmo Kramer.
It is greater than six.
Here is the distance between me and Elaine Venus.
And here we have the distance between me and Federico Garay, which, as we are the same person, is
less than 0.6, and then the others, which also do not have an appropriate distance for there to be
an accepted match.
So as I only got a value less than 0.6 and the third photo we can say that the third element of this
list, the one at index two, is the only one that can be considered a match.
So how are we going to transform this into code so that we can identify the selected individual?
We're going to import up here a library called NumPy, which we have already installed at the beginning
of this day, and which we're going to be looking at quite a bit in the future.
And once we've imported it, we're going to come up here after this print of distance, and we're going
to create a new variable that's going to be the match index, and that's going to be equal to NumPy
dot arg min, which is a method that's going to give us the smallest of the values.
That's in a list of values.
What list of values?
The one in the distance is list.
Then distances is going to provide these five values and numpy is going to tell us which is the smallest
and this is going to store it in match index.
So this already allows us to create a code inside the loop to show coincidences, if any.
And here we say that if the distance in the index that corresponds to match index has a value greater
than 0.6, that is to say that it is not an acceptable coincidence because it has a very big distance.
We're going to print that does not match any of our employees.
Perfect foot in case distances is smaller than, let's say for now, something very simple, like have
a nice working day.
And then we're going to do something else here.
But for now, we'll leave it like this to mark the spot.
So we run it as it is, and I get back to place so that I can get the right picture taken.
The picture is coming and I'm getting pretty.
The picture was taken and here it says, Have a nice working day because he identified that I am this
person in the third place.
So at the moment, we haven't shown the match yet.
We're going to do that in the next lesson and add some supplementary code.